.TH JOTPAD 1 "2026" "jotpad 1.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jotpad \- minimal single-note editor with live markdown formatting
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jotpad
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Jotpad
is a minimal desktop note editor that manages a single persistent note file.
It auto-saves when typing stops and provides live inline markdown formatting
with clickable hyperlinks.
.PP
On first run, Jotpad prompts for a file location to store the note.
On subsequent runs, it opens the same file automatically.
.SH FEATURES
.IP \(bu 2
Single persistent note file
.IP \(bu 2
Auto-save with 800ms debounce after typing stops
.IP \(bu 2
Live inline markdown formatting (headings, bold, italic, code, links)
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl+click to open hyperlinks
.IP \(bu 2
Configurable keyboard shortcuts for settings panel and quit
.IP \(bu 2
External theme files with user override support
.IP \(bu 2
Configurable font family and size
.IP \(bu 2
Markdown formatting can be toggled on/off
.IP \(bu 2
Window size and position remembered across sessions
.IP \(bu 2
Note file is moved when changing storage location
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
.TP
.B Ctrl+` (default)
Toggle the settings panel. Configurable via settings.
.TP
.B Ctrl+Q (default)
Quit the application. Configurable via settings.
.SH THEMES
Jotpad loads theme files from two locations:
.TP
.I /usr/share/jotpad/themes/
System-wide themes installed with the package.
.TP
.I ~/.config/jotpad/themes/
User themes. Files here override system themes with the same filename.
.PP
Theme files use plain key=value format with a .conf extension. Example:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# My custom theme
name = My Theme
bg = #282828
text = #ebdbb2
highlight = #3c3836
hyperlink = #83a598
md_syntax = #665c54
surface = #1d2021
surface2 = #3c3836
border = #504945
accent = #83a598
muted = #928374
heading1 = #ebdbb2
heading2 = #d5c4a1
heading3 = #bdae93
bold = #fe8019
italic = #d3869b
code = #b8bb26
code_bg = #1d2021
scrollbar = #504945
scrollbar_hover = #665c54
.fi
.RE
.PP
To create a custom theme, copy an existing .conf file from
/usr/share/jotpad/themes/ to ~/.config/jotpad/themes/ and edit it.
New themes appear in the settings panel automatically.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/jotpad/config
Configuration file in plain key=value format.
.PP
The configuration file supports the following keys:
.TP
.B theme
Theme slug matching a .conf filename (default: dark)
.TP
.B font_family
Font family name (default: monospace)
.TP
.B font_size
Font size in pixels (default: 14)
.TP
.B note_path
Absolute path to the note file
.TP
.B markdown_enabled
Enable live markdown formatting: true or false (default: true)
.TP
.B settings_shortcut
Keyboard shortcut to toggle settings panel (default: Ctrl+`)
.TP
.B quit_shortcut
Keyboard shortcut to quit (default: Ctrl+Q)
.TP
.B window_width
Window width in pixels
.TP
.B window_height
Window height in pixels
.TP
.B window_x
Window X position
.TP
.B window_y
Window Y position
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
If set, configuration and user themes are stored under
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/jotpad/ instead of ~/.config/jotpad/.
.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdg-open (1)
